# Traffic Management
> Improving understanding of traffic to increase efficiency. performance OR Understanding impacts of traffic flow to improve.
> Understanding the impact of traffic system variables on traffic flow. Variables in the traffic system to enhance traffic flow.

This project aims to explore the impact of the road network, control signal programming and the behaviour of vehicles on traffic flow.  Through the creation and customisation of realistic simulations accurate information regarding can be derived traffic flow performance parameters. This information can be used to improve decision making aimed at increasing traffic flow efficiency.

## Getting started

Download the code for the simulation of your choice. 

Open in a code editor which supports Python.

Install necessary python packages as listed at the top of the python script.

Execute the code to initiate the simulations and a graphic window will pop up displaying the vehicles in the road network.

## Developing

## Features

The functionality of the program is to simulate different traffic scenarios and calculate the value of performance parameters to assess the system. The programs enable a high level of customisation. The layout of the road network can be altered to mimic any desired layout. The traffic which passes through the road network can be can fully defined prior to the simulation as the route taken by each vehicle can be specified. The traffic light signal control system, which permits vehicles to progress through the road network, can be fully customised.

## Configuration
The user can change simple variable arguments to alter the input to the simulation. Through experimentation of these arguments the user can derive the affect on the traffic system performance. These arguments include: the total number of cars which will participate in the simulation (num_cars); the number of cars that will start in the system (num_initial_internal_cars); the time interval between a set of new cars entering the system (car_entry_interval_timer_limit); the number of cars in each set which enter the system (new_cars_per_interval) and the length of the time the simulation will run (time_limit). Changing the value of these arguments will alter the behaviour of the traffic in the system. 

# Further Information & Links

In the repository of this project (https://github.com/sethscahill18/TrafficMan1) there are three scripts of code which simulate different traffic scenarios. The first of which, traffic_code_1.py, simulates a complex road network which consists of atypical junctions and layouts inspired from a street map of New York. This script demonstrates the high level of customisability of the road network afforded to the user by the program. This enables the user to assess the impact on traffic flow in different road networks. (basically allowing the user to design and simulate any road layout that they wish.)
A video displaying the simulation created from this script can be found at the following link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CfFbRqDhEjk

The following two scripts, traffic_code_2.py and traffic_code_3.py, share the same road network such that the two can be compared to assess the impact of different traffic signal control methods. The road network used in both simulations is a simple grid system which consists of a predetermined number of equally spaced junctions. The traffic_code_2 script implements a set timer cyclical control method. This means that each traffic signal at a junction will be green for the same amount of time, hence referred to as a "set timer". Furthermore, the order in which the traffic signals at a junction turn green follows a preset sequence and traffic signals will continuously loop through this sequence, this is described as the "cyclical" nature of the control method. The second script, traffic_code_3, employs at adaptive control system which varies the length of time a traffic signal is green and ...the order in which the traffic signals at a junction turn green... once the green period for a traffic signal has ended any traffic signal at the junction could be selected to turn green next, hence the control method does not follow a predefined sequence. This program is thus adaptable and not predefined. (tempted not to mention that it is repsonsive to the current traffic situation.) Once both sample codes are completed the traffic flow performance parameters are calculated and displayed. This allows for a comparison to be made between the different traffic signal control methods.

A video displaying the simulation generated by sample code traffic_code_2, set timer control method, can be found at the following link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=igwDY0FWk_w

A video displaying the simulation generated by sample code traffic_code_3, adaptive control method, can be found at the following link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9e6TX1xMXc8&t=41s

